All right.
So in this lesson, we're going to finally explore the index that J.S. filed in our router folder,
and we're going to configure our view router from scratch.
Before we get there, though, there's one more thing I'd like to do.
As you know by now, we have a views directory and it holds our top level views, which are just components
that represent the pages in our website.
And we are going to have a home view.
But this about view that was generated for us is unnecessary.
We don't need this.
So what I propose we do is rename it to be job results view and this will represent the job results
page eventually.
So right here I'm just going to click here and select rename and I'm going to change this to job results
view and I can press okay for Vidor to make the correct changes if I can find them.
And right here, of course, since we changed our file name, let's change the name property to be job
results view as well.
And then finally right here where we're outputting a header, let's just put job results view so we
don't get confused.
Okay.
So with that, we are good to edit our router index file, so go ahead and open it up and you will have
some content here that was automatically placed in here by view.
Seeley But what I would like to do is to remove this content entirely so we can write this file from
scratch and understand the pieces of it individually.
Let's do that right now.
I'm just going to select everything and delete it and we have an empty file.
So let's configure our view router.
Let's configure the logic that's going to allow view to render a different view component right here,
a different view on a given route on a given u URL or path on the website.
So the first thing we need to do is to import two functions from the view router, NPM library.
The first one is going to be create router and that actually mirrors the name of Create App, which
we imported from view in our main JS file when we bootstrap the app up.
So we're going to use this function to create a view router.
And then a second function that we need here is create web hash history like so.
And that is going to come from view router.
The next thing that I want to do is to create the router.
So right here I'll create a constant called router and I will assign it to the return value of the invocation
of the create router function.
Pretty logical.
So we're going to invoke that function.
And that function takes an options argument, which is just a plain JavaScript object that configures
the settings for how the router works.
And there's only two properties that we're going to need to add here.
As always, these properties are not up to us.
These are required configuration settings for the router to know how to work.
The first property is called history and that is going to determine how the browser keeps track of user
history.
And when I use the word history, what I'm referring to is keeping track of what routes the user has
been on.
And the reason that's important is when the user presses the back button in the browser or their forward
button, we need something that keeps track of where they've been so that we can navigate them backwards
or forwards.
And luckily, this is a very simple value to assign here and something we only have to do once here.
What we can do is invoke the create web hash history function, which I imported as well.
Just invoke it right here.
And this will set up the history functionality for the router to keep track of the user's navigation
and where they've been.
It's as simple as that.
We never have to worry about it again.
The next property that I'd like to assign is called Routes, and this is going to be an array of routes.
What is a route?
A route is a JavaScript object that's going to specify the path, meaning the URL, and then the component
to render when the user has navigated to that path.
So because this is going to be an array, we can totally do it in line like so.
But to keep things a little bit simpler, what I propose we do is to create a concept called routes
right here, set an equal to an array and then just use S6 in order to populate the value here.
So as a reminder, this is valid.
Yes, syntax.
This is a shortcut for manually writing routes, colon routes.
But whenever you have the same property name and value, you can consolidate it like so.
So the routes property will reference a value of a routes array.
So as I mentioned, the array is going to consist of objects and each object represents one single route.
So one mapping between a URL or a path and the corresponding view component to render.
And that component, of course, is going to be one of these views, because these views represent the
top level page components.
So let's import both of our views, the home view and the job results view into this file.
So right here, I'll begin with our home view and that is going to come from the source directory.
And now we do not want to go into components, we want to go into views.
And in here we're going to have our home view dot view component.
And then we also want to import our job results view.
This is going to be our second page of the app.
And so it's going to come from the source directory views and job results view.
All right.
And the extension at the end is optional.
I'm just including it here.
Just.
Just because.
Personal brands.
Okay, so we have two views, which means we're going to need two routes, right, to two different
URLs and one is going to render home view and one is going to render job results field.
So in here, let's break up this array and let's set up my first configuration object.
And for each object, I'm going to provide three properties and they are path, name and component.
Let's begin with Path.
So this is the URL path at which the component should render.
So for my home view, I want that to render at the root root.
And when I mean or when I say the root root, what I mean is the home page, the slash root.
When you go to your browser, when you go to localhost, 80, 80, in our case, or in any typical website,
when you go to that website dot com, the home page, the root page is the kind of standard starting
root.
And the way we indicate a root root is with a slash.
So what this basically means from you's perspective is take the websites such as localhost, 80, 80,
and then add slash, which is the home root.
This is the component that we're going to render.
All right.
So at that path of the root, root, what component do we want to render?
Well, we provide a component property, and then we simply give it the component that we want to render.
Of course, at the root root we want to render our home page, which is represented by the home view
component.
Okay.
There's one more property that I'd like to add here.
I'm going to do it here in the middle.
And it is name and all that name is is a unique identifier for this root.
So it's an arbitrary name that you can give this root and it's going to be beneficial because we'll
be able to use this name throughout the app in order to navigate.
So for example, when we wanted to take the user to the home view, instead of having to remember the
path of the home view the slash, we can just remember the name that we assign here, which is up to
us and just tell the router, Hey, go to this name, right?
So for example, if I give this root a name of home later on, we'll explore how we can tell the router
to go to the home root.
And that way we don't have to remember the technical details of the actual path.
Right.
And it's also a little bit more adaptable to change, because if this path changes, for example, like,
you know, become something like slash home, as long as we're referencing the home root name, anywhere
in our code view will know that home now represents slash home and it will automatically navigate there
instead.
Not breaking our code compared to if we manually refer to slash pat the slash path.
And if this changes, then all of a sudden everything will break because that path will no longer exist.
So that's the advantage of using a name property to give a unique name to this root.
So we have a root called home.
It is at the slash or root root of a web page or website, and that will render the home the a component.
So you can probably guess what we do next will set up another JavaScript object and we'll follow the
exact same protocol.
So we'll have a path property and for our job results page, let's make that available at slash jobs
slash results.
So slash jobs, slash results.
This is totally a arbitrary preference.
This is my pick because I think it's pretty logical, but you can make this whatever you want technically.
So this is just the URL that the user will visit in the browser.
So when the user visits localhost 80 slash jobs, slash results, what component do we want to render
and what name do we want to give it?
Let's give our component or rather the root, the name of job results and the component that we want
to render at that root is going to be these job results view.
So now we've used both of our imported views and as we add more views to the app, you guessed it,
you just come back to this router index that GSC file and you add another object for that root.
All right.
And then, of course, we set up the actual router itself and we give it an array of roots.
And then the only thing that's left to do in this file is, of course, to export default that router,
because as a reminder, we are importing this router in main jobs and that's where everything should
hopefully come full circle.
So here we are importing that created view router from that index file.
So we just wrote all of that configuration and then what we're doing is adding it to our view app by
using the use method and providing that whole router object that we're exporting out of here.
And that router object in its internals keeps track of the individual routes that the user can visit
on our Web page.
All right.
So that's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.